---
title: Topological Crystalline Insulators
tags:
  - Physics
  - Condensed-Matter
  - Topological-Materials
draft: false
---
## Tenfold Way
The "tenfold way" is a classification of topological insulators that depends on the dimension of the system and its symmetries. Based on the symmetries and dimension, the tenfold way tells you the possible values the topological invariant can take. Some possible classes are

- __Class A in 2d__: $\mathbb{Z}$ invariant
	- No symmetry
	- Integer quantum Hall / Chern insulator
- __Class AII in 2d and 3d__: $\mathbb{Z}_2$ invariant
	- Time reversal symmetry present (for spin 1/2 fermions)
	- Describes topological insulators
		- Weak indices not captured. 

However this table only depends on the _internal symmetries_ of the system. For example, the weak indices in a topological insulator depends on translational symmetries, which is a crystalline symmetry, not an internal symmetry. Hence, this classification scheme is insufficient to describe this set of topological indices. 
## Crystal Symmetries

[[Point Groups]] are a set of lattice operations that leaves at least one point invariant. Some possible operations are 
- _Rotation_: Leaves entire axis invariant
- _Mirror_: Leaves entire plane invariant
- _Inversion_: Leaves the origin invariant
- _Roto-inversion_: rotation plus inversion

For example, the  $T_d$ point group consists of a $C_4$ rotation operation $\times$ inversion, but not either one individually. A point group combined with translation generates a [[Space Groups |space group]]. In 3D, there are 14 possible Bravais lattices generated by translation operations. Combined with all the possible point groups, there are 230 possible space groups, not including magnetic symmetries which are another story.
## Symmetries in the Hamiltonian

A system is said to have a symmetry if its Hamiltonian commutes with that particular symmetry operation. This block-diagonalizes the Hamiltonian according to its symmetries. For example, translation symmetry allows us to block-diagonalize the Hamiltonian in k-space. Crystal symmetries can mix different k-space blocks. At a general k-point, the Hamiltonian does not commute with the crystal symmetry operations. 

A symmetry operation has a matrix representation $\Delta(G)$ , where $G$ is the element of the symmetry group. This describes how it acts on our Hilbert space. The Hamiltonian transforms under the symmetry element as
$$\Delta(G) H(k) \Delta(G) = H(Gk) $$
Notice the the crystal momentum is also transformed. Each $k$ has associated with it a "little group" consisting of the subset of crystal symmetry operations that leave it invariant $Gk_0 = k_0$. The energy bands at $k_0$ can be classified as _representations_ of the little group. This means that the eigenstates of each band at $k_0$ can be given a label corresponding to representations of the little group of that $k_0$.

Going from any point along a high-symmetry line, the symmetry of the line is generically lower than the symmetry of the point, and will be a subgroup of the little group. Knowing the symmetry of a point, you can uniquely figure out the representation along the line by decomposing the representation of the little group at $k_0$ into representations of the little group along the line. This generates _compatibility relations_ that tell you how the points and lines can connect with each other. These compatibility relations are a cornerstone to the theory of [[Topological Quantum Chemistry||topological quantum chemistry]].
## Topological Crystalline Insulators

Topological crystalline insulators are a cousin to topological insulators. It has been noticed that materials made out of chemically similar elements arranged in same crystal structure have similar electronic properties.
- e.g. Si, Ge, and Diamond all made of group 4 elements and have same crystal structure. All three are insulators with band gap of order of 1 eV

>__Question__: Are there topologically distinct states with the same crystal structure? Are there topologically non-trivial states protected by crystal symmetry instead of TRS?

The answer is yes. 
#### Tin Telluride: First TCI
In 2012 first realization of topological crystalline insulators found in Tin Telluride (SnTe), a binary compound with rocksalt crystal structure. Conversely, lead telluride is non-topological with same crystal structure. 

Tin telluride is predicted to have topologically protected surface states while lead telluride does not; the topological protection comes from the _mirror symmetry_. Experimental groups observed surface states in tin telluride. These surface states open a band gap upon a structural distortion that breaks the mirror symmetry.

>__Summary__: TCIs have topological surface states that are protected by crystal symmetries.

### References
- [YouTube link to Jennifer Cano's Talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dj-aRe5d2Hk&ab_channel=TopologicalMatterSchool)
- [YouTube link to Liang Fu's Talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N9-tUYjXC1s&ab_channel=Courseontopologyincondensedmatter)